Blockchain is changing industries across the world including personal identification,
medicine, finance, supply chain management, and even government.
But what makes this possible?
Basically, the Blockchain is a completely new way to share data.
It allows us to make transactions in a way that are more secure,
more transparent, and cheaper than before.
We can do all this without large companies
collecting and managing our data like they do today.
Let's discuss a few examples from industries we mentioned earlier,
starting with personal identity.
We all want our identity to be safe.
No one should be able to access information about where we go,
what we do, or what we're planning without our permission.
The problem is we often give this information over to major corporations in
return for the services they provide and can lose control of how our information is used.
These corporations store the data we produce in large central databases.
Having such important data collected into a single location,
can be useful but there are some risk.
One risk is that it makes it a huge target for hackers to break in and steal our data.
For example in 2017,
Equifax, a major credit bureau, was hacked.
Up to 140 million Americans or
about half the United States population lost important data to hackers.
These hackers gained access to credit cards,
bank accounts, and all other information that Equifax had collected.
So what does this have to do with Blockchain?
Well, on the Blockchain,
data isn't held in a centralized database.
It's shared with everyone and verified by people in the network.
Information is secured using cryptography so that
criminals can't come and steal our data.
This makes this type of data breach nearly impossible.
Next, imagine what it takes to create a new product.
How do companies track the parts being shipped,
the work being done, and the ownership of each new product?
Let's look at car manufacturing as an example.
To build the car,
there are many companies involved.
The shipping parts like screws,
panels, engines, and doors.
All of these parts need to be tracked.
Even after the car is built,
we need to track the car's ownership as it goes from the manufacturer,
to the dealer, to the end consumer.
This process is known as the supply chain.
Right now, managing the supply chain is extremely messy.
The details and history of each part are listed across many companies.
These companies usually don't share information with each
other and struggle to keep their records up to date.
This forces companies to spend a lot of resources handling these records.
This is the space where the Blockchain can make a huge difference.
On the Blockchain, the information about this car can be made publicly available.
This allows us to know the exact details and history
of every part of the product we buy, rent, or use.
You might be thinking,
"What if I don't want all this data to be shared with everyone?"
That's okay too.
For one thing, the information that is public is also generally anonymous.
This way you can be sure no one can see what you're doing.
There are also other security measures
built into the system that we'll discuss throughout the course.
Here are a few more quick examples to show you
how the Blockchain could revolutionize other industries.
In medicine, we can help save lives by having
more secure and accurate patient information.
We can send money across the world freely and securely,
potentially changing the entire financial system.
Even government elections can be made more secure and transparent on the Blockchain.
With all these possibilities,
you have to wonder what is the Blockchain?
Where did it come from? How can you begin learning more about it?
We'll get into much more details about this next.